1.List the components of hadoop2.X and explain each component in detail



The major components of hadoop2.x  are
*YARN
*MapReduce
*HDFS



*YARN:
         YARN stand for  Yet Another Resource Negotiator which is a cluster management technology of
hadoop2.It was found by Apache Software Foundation and it is a open source distributed processing 
framework.YARN is a sofware that decouples Mapreduce's resource management and scheduling
capabilities from the data , thus enabling hadoop to support more processing approaches and a 
broader of application.YARN extends the power pf hadoop and new technologies found within the 
data center.It has the advantage of cost effective,linear-scale storage and processing.




*MapReduce:
                     Mapreduce is used for processing the stored data.MapReduce is a 
Batch Processing or Distributed Data Processing Module. It is built by following Google’s 
MapReduce Algorithm. It is also know as “MR V1” or “Classic MapReduce” as it is part of Hadoop 1.x.
It is composed of two main components:

-Job Tracker:
                    It is the service that farms out MapReduce tasks to specific nodes in the cluster,ideally
the nodes that have the data or atleast are in same rack.Controls overall execution of map reduce jobs.
Job Tracker runs on a seperate node and not usually on data node.Job tracker talks to the name node to 
determine the location of data.


-Task Tracker:
                    TaskTracker is replaced by Node Manager in MRv2.TaskTrackers will be assigned Mapper and
 Reducer tasks to execute by JobTracker.It periodically communicates with the job tracker to give updates
receives instructions.





*HDFS:
           Hadoop Distributed File System is used for storage purpose in hadoop.It consists of single namenode,
called as master which manages the namespace of filesystem.There are number of data nodes which manages 
the storage to the nodes they run.Hdfs is designed to work with large data sets.The default block size is 64MB.The
three main components of HDFS are:


-Name Node:
                    Name node is also known as master and stores only metadata of HDFS.Name node is a 
single point of failure in hadoop cluster.Name node is so critical to HDFS and when the name node is down.
HDFS/Hadoop cluster is inaccessible.Name node contains Hadoop Filesystem tree.It contains in-memory mapping 
of which blocks are  stored in which data node.

-Secondary NameNode:
                             Secondary Name Node is a specially dedicated node in HDFS.Its vital role is to take 
checkpoints of the filesystem metadata present on namenode.It is not a backup for Namenode.Its just
a helper node  for Namenode.


-Data Node:
                  Datanode  is called as slaves.It is responsible for storing the actual data in hdfs.Data node announces
itself to the name node along with the list of blocks which are responsible for,when it starts.It sends signal to the name
node periodically to verify if it is active.It is called as Workhouse of the system.It performs all block operation 
including checksum.








